Welcome to session 202, introduction to
Auto Layout for iOS and OS X.
I'm Marian Goldeen.
I'm an engineer on UI kit,
and I'm here to help you get
acquainted with Auto Layout.
So come on in.
The water's fine.
Well, what is Auto Layout?
Some of you probably remember that
it was introduced in Cocoa last year,
and it's new this year on iOS.
But just to make sure everyone
knows what we're talking about,
when we say Auto Layout,
we're not talking about the
layout of autos in a parking lot.
We're talking about the
layout of your controls and
views in your user interface.
Auto Layout is a constraint
based descriptive layout system.
Well that's very well and good,
but what do I actually mean by that?
Hard coded layout,
which you're all familiar with,
is when you say, put some specific magic
numbers in for your frames,
like for instance the
button's frame origin is 124,
396, and that works just fine
as long as nothing happens.
Of course, something changes a little
bit and then that frame origin
doesn't actually do what you want.
So hard coded layout is not
descriptive and it's not what we want.
Auto Layout is descriptive because
instead of just putting out these
numbers that have no actual meaning,
we describe what we want from our layout.
For example, we want the button centered
horizontally in its super view,
and we want it a fixed
distance from the bottom.
And if you think about that description,
Those two aspects that we're describing
can be represented as linear equations.
The button center X is equal
to the super view center X.
The button's bottom is equal to the
super view's bottom minus the padding.
And those equations are
what we call constraints.
So that's the
constraint-based part of it.
So if you describe the layout,
because it's descriptive,
with constraints,
and here comes the auto part,
the system calculates the
frames for you automatically.
Here's what we're going
to go through today.
We're going to start with setting
up a simple constraint-based layout.
Just where do you begin?
Then I'm going to tell you a little
bit about what's going on behind the
scenes to take care of that layout.
After that, we're going to discuss the
visual format language,
which is some helpful things in code
to make your code easier to read
and actually a bit more concise.
I'm also going to tell you about
a couple of pitfalls that are
important and unfortunately,
you're all going to hit
them as you get started,
so it's good to know
about them ahead of time.
And there's an important compatibility
issue that I want to point out.
So let's get going.
And the best way to start with
setting up Auto Layout is with a demo.
So here what we have is the
single view template from iOS,
and we're ready to go.
In the Utilities panel on the right,
in the tab on the left,
we have the File Inspector.
And if you select the file inspector
and down in the middle there's a
check box that says use Auto Layout.
Yeah, there it is.
This checkbox is now going
to be checked by default,
but I actually want to start
out this demo by unchecking it
just to give you a sort of where
we're coming from kind of demo.
So suppose you pull a button out.
of your palette and drop it in.
As you move it around,
Xcode draws these guides for you.
And what these guides are telling you
when you're not using Auto Layout are
different from what they're telling
you when you are using Auto Layout.
So what they're telling me right
now is that if I choose this frame,
I'm going to be in a position that's
the standard distances from the sides.
If I choose this frame,
my frame will be centered horizontally
and a standard distance from the bottom.
So that's like my pictures before,
so that's so I'm going to choose,
give it a name.
And I build and run.
And I find that what I've done here
is I've done hard coded layout.
I've just set the frame of the button,
although I might not know
exactly what frame I set.
That's all I did.
And when I rotate, of course,
the button's off screen.
Darn it.
That's not what I wanted.
But if we'd done the exact
same thing with Auto Layout,
Let's just remove this and
start from the beginning.
Turn on Auto Layout.
Now, if I do the exact same
thing with Auto Layout,
once again, I have these guides,
but this time, the guides are indicating
something different.
The guides are saying, well,
if you put it here,
you're telling me that I want
constraints to have the left edge
and bottom edge of the button at
this fixed H-I-defined distance,
and if you put it here, you're saying,
I want this button centered,
and I want it a distance from the bottom.
So that's an important
difference from saying,
I want this frame that happens
to right now be centered.
You're saying,
I want this always to be centered.
So when you drop it,
You're telling IB what
constraints you want,
and IB obediently creates them.
You can see these little blue lines.
You can roll over them and kind
of see them a little better.
There's the vertical,
that's the centering one,
and then there's a little
I-beam for the spacer.
If you look over here on the left,
you see that the constraints
are full-fledged objects.
In IB,
you can connect up outlets to them,
and we'll be doing that later.
Also, once they're selected,
they have attributes,
which we'll also talk
about in a later demo.
And if I build and run at this point,
Then I've described my layout,
and the layout system
calculates the frames for me,
and it gets them right.
So, thank you.
That's that simple demo.
So that's how you describe the layout
with constraints in Interface Builder.
You can also do it in code.
Now, Interface Builder did a
couple of steps for you.
And so you're going to have to
do the two steps separately.
And those steps are creating the
constraints and adding them to a view.
So step one, you create your constraints.
And the API for that is
in NSLayoutConstraint.h.
This is a header that's exported
both by AppKit and UIKit.
You don't have to pound
import it separately.
It's in the umbrella headers.
But I'm telling you the header name in
case you like to read header comments.
The general form of a constraint
is just this equation,
and that helps you remember the API.
But the attribute of the first item is
equal to a multiplier times the attribute
of the second item plus a constant.
And I'm actually simplifying
things a little bit.
That equal sign can
also be an inequality,
but it's just easier to look
at the equal sign for now.
So the API just follows
out directly from that.
It's a little bit lengthy
when you first look at it,
but you keep your head on.
And the first item is on the
left side of the equation there
for the first two arguments.
The attribute can be center, left, top,
bottom, there's a bunch.
Then the relation is the
equals part or the inequality.
Then the second item and its attribute
are the fourth and fifth arguments.
And then come the
multiplier and the constant.
Concretely,
with the example that we're using so far,
you just have the center of the button
is equal to the super view center.
And so you see that our relation
is NS layout relation equals.
You see that our attributes are
NS layout attribute center X.
Multiplier is one, constant is zero.
Bottom, same deal,
we accept our attribute is bottom.
Our relation is still equal.
We have minus our padding.
You sort of have to
remember your sign here.
If you get that wrong,
it goes the other way.
And you say, "Oh, whoops,
got my sign wrong."
At this point, you might be looking at
this API and thinking,
that's kind of a lot of code.
It was pretty easy to
do in Interface Builder.
Why would I ever want to do it in code?
There's a few reasons.
One reason is didactic,
which is you're trying to
teach yourself what's going on,
and you can remember, okay,
there's this unitary equation,
and that's our elementary API,
and I can kind of put it together.
And now I understand
what IB is doing for me.
That's why I'm doing it here.
But, of course, there are other reasons
for using the code.
And sometimes you just kind of got to.
Like you have a view controller that
vends different views at runtime
and those views you want to replace,
so you have to set up the
constraints at runtime.
And there are a few kinds of
constraints that you actually
can't set up in interface builder,
and you must set them up in code.
So those are some reasons why
you actually care about the code.
So now that we've created
our constraints and code,
the next thing we want to
do is add them to a view.
And that's another piece of API that
on AppKit is in NSLayoutConstraint.h.
In UIKit, we've put it in UIView.h.
It's defined in a category on
NSView and AppKit and UIView and UIKit.
And it's just add constraint.
Simple enough.
There's also add constraints,
remove constraint, remove constraints.
They all go together,
and then you're doing
what you might expect.
So, okay, you need to add your
constraint to a view.
Add them to which view?
The answer is you want to add
them to the two views closest
common ancestor where every view is
considered an ancestor of itself.
So what I mean by that is if
the two views are siblings,
you add the constraint to their parents.
If the two views are cousins,
you add the constraint
to their grandparent.
If the two views are parent and child,
which they are in this
example that we're using,
you add the constraint to the parent.
So now I'm just going to run through
that same example using code.
I'm just going to do everything
I did in an IB in code.
Remove the button,
so I'm going to do it in code.
Go to my view controller.m file.
Doing this in view did load
in the view controller,
perfectly good place to
set up your constraints.
It doesn't have to go there,
but it's a good place to do it sometimes.
And I'm going to just pound define
in the code that I wrote already.
Don't need this view.
Let's give us a little more room.
All right.
Here I'm just setting up
my views and my button,
creating my button and
adding it as a subview.
So here's where I create my constraint,
and it's exactly like
I had in that slide.
We have the button center X is equal to
the super view center X times 1 plus 0.
And we add the constraint to the
super view because it's the parent
of the super view and the button.
I should say the ancestor.
And then the second constraint
we have the button's bottom is
equal to the super view's bottom.
Times 1 minus 20, add the constraint,
build and run,
and works just like I set it up in IB.
There's something I want
to point out to you here.
And what I want to point out is
that if I search for set frame,
Not found.
This is important.
I never set the frame of that
button because the layout system
is what's setting the frame,
and that's something you need to keep
in mind when you're using Auto Layout.
You're not the one
who's setting the frame.
You're just describing the layout.
Some of you who might be fairly
experienced with doing layout may have
had this thought cross their mind.
I can do that with springs and struts.
Everything I did here,
I could do with springs and struts.
Just flexible left margin,
flexible right margin,
flexible top margin on the bottom.
I get the same behavior.
You'd be absolutely right.
Everything you can do
with springs and struts,
you can do with constraints.
This turns out to be important.
Marian
With constraints,
you can do a whole lot more.
Constraints can apply to any two views,
regardless of their view hierarchy.
You may remember with springs and struts,
you have to have that
parent-child relationship,
and furthermore, it's directional.
It goes from the parent to the child,
and the position or size of the child
doesn't affect the parent at all.
Constraints can go either way.
You can establish maximums
and minimums with constraints.
You remember that you
can use inequalities.
This comes in handy.
And constraints can also be prioritized.
So up to now,
the constraints that we've been
talking about have been required.
There's a property on
NSLayoutConstraint called priority.
The data type is different in
AppKit and UIKit just with the prefix,
and we didn't just do that
because of the prefixes.
We actually have slightly
different system-defined priority
levels for the two cases.
So we've got different names.
The most important thing to
remember right now and what you
need for going forward is that the
required priority level is 1,000.
Anything less than that is not
required and will be satisfied by
the systems as much as possible.
So any error will be minimized.
And you can set the priority on
a constraint any time before the
constraint's added to a view.
So with that in mind,
I can continue the demo and
do a few things that you can't
do with springs and struts.
So here's where we left off
at the end of the first demo.
We had our button,
and we had a centering constraint
and a bottom spacer constraint.
And we decide that the button actually
needs a label to go along with it.
So notice I'm getting another guide
here to the right of the label.
And that guide is letting me
know that I'm going to ask for
a space or constraint between
the label and the button.
That is what I want.
So I'm going to stop there.
And you can actually -- I'll just show it
to you here because it's kind of small.
We have a horizontal spacer there
between the label and the button.
And I'm going to give the label
a sort of slightly better name.
A nice little thing you can do
in Interface Builder is if you
select the view controller,
In the attributes for
the view controller,
you can change the simulated orientation.
And it'll actually lay out
as if you had built and run.
And so, indeed,
here we have the label is actually just
sticking right there next to the button.
It didn't move around or anything.
We've constrained it to be just this
fixed space to the left of the button,
and the button's centered,
and it's all working the way we want.
So the next thing that might
happen is you might have a
different label for the button.
You might have a label that
takes up a little more room.
I want to make sure I'm still centered
and got all the constraints that I want.
So now I have the button centered,
it has a long title.
Let's say I did build
and run at this point.
Well, I'm running into a little
problem here with my layout.
I like the landscape layout,
but in the portrait,
the label has kind of fallen
off the side of the view.
It's actually clipped there.
You know,
the view is just kind of out of bounds.
And I don't want that.
I want that label to never
get closer to the edge than
the HIDefied standard margin.
And, but you know,
I want to allow it to get
bigger than that in landscape.
And so that's where an inequality
constraint could be helpful.
So I want to put in a constraint on the
left as a left spacer for the label.
So I want to create a new constraint,
and there's two places you can do it.
You can find it in the
editor menu under Pin.
I'm going to do it from this button
down here in the lower right.
There's a little picture like an I-beam,
and that's your hint
that it's a constraint.
So we'll pop it up,
and I want to pin the leading
space to the super view,
and since English is left to right,
leading space gives me the left one.
And then if I look over on the
right in the attributes inspector,
I don't want the relation to be equal,
remember?
I wanted it to be a minimum,
so I want greater than or equal to.
And of course, 79 is too big.
I just want the standard space.
So I click that for standard,
and now we should be good and
not have the label bumping
into the edge of the frame.
Hmm.
All right.
Still good in landscape.
But we've clipped the label.
So it turns out that it's more important
to the constraint system at this point
to keep that button centered than
it is to avoid keeping the label.
But I say, hey, look,
there's kind of more
room there on the right.
I'd actually like it to be more important
to show the entire contents of the label
than it is to keep that button centered.
So this is where I want to change the
priority of my centering constraint.
So I stop and I go back.
I can either select the button,
which will show the constraints,
and then I can select the constraint.
Or I could have gone straight to the
constraint in the menu on the outline
view on the left and selected it there.
But I select the constraint,
and then I have these priorities.
So you see that by default it
had been brought out with a
required priority of 1,000.
And once you start moving this slider,
you get a helpful tool tip that
gives you an idea of where your
constraint falls in priority with
respect to system-defined priorities.
And I actually want a pretty
low priority here to be lower.
It's not that important to the
system to avoid clipping the label.
So I make that priority
pretty low on that centering
constraint to be lower than that.
Build and run.
Okay, now I've got what I want.
I can read everything.
I don't have any label truncation.
I rotate,
the button is centered in landscape
where there's room to do that.
I go back to portrait,
and the button isn't centered,
but it's almost centered.
It very clearly did the best it could,
so I'm satisfied.
So now I've showed you the priorities
and the inequalities and how they
can actually work together to
make your layout do what you want.
But I want to show you one more thing,
which is about cross-view
hierarchy constraints.
It's not that unusual to maybe
have some sort of container view
containing some portion of your UI.
So I'm going to make a container view.
And I'll just make it be Aqua guidelines.
Okay?
And, you know, as I was pulling it out
to those guidelines,
I was telling it where
I wanted my constraints.
I'm perfectly satisfied with
these margin spacer constraints.
Normally, with a container view,
you might make the background
color completely clear.
I'm going to leave it showing just so
you can follow my demo a little better.
So I'll leave it showing.
Now, suppose that I've written some
appearance containment stuff with
appearance when contained in.
So I just happen to have
a view subclass here,
which makes switches orange.
So this is going to be a container
view that makes switches orange.
So I'll pull a switch out in there.
The constraints that IB will
make for me for this switch are
with respect to its super view.
So I'll just go ahead and set those in,
and it's centering in its super view.
It looks pretty good in landscape
because I do want the switch
centered over the button.
I'm going to build and run.
And the switch is orange,
which it got from the
appearance containment.
But it looks a little cockeyed.
It looks pretty good in landscape
where it's centered over the button.
But in portrait,
it's still centered in its super
view when I actually want it to
stay centered over the button,
but of course we can't count
on the button to stay centered.
So I want to tie the center of the
switch to the center of the button.
And I think, oh, you know,
I ought to be able to do that in IB.
Maybe I can do that in IB.
I could go into IB and I could
select the two items and add
a constraint between them,
too.
So you go, okay,
so I'll select the button,
and then I'll shift select the switch.
Huh, right, it selected its super view
because it's at the same
hierarchy level as the button.
And you go, oh, well,
IB can't quite do this yet.
So that's where you say, well,
I better set this constraint up in code.
Remember that the constraints are
full-fledged objects in Interface Builder
so that you can hook up the outlets.
So we go to the editor view so we can
look at the header at the same time
as we're looking at the storyboard.
And I've already set up my
outlets to save us a little time.
We'll need to remove the centering
constraint on the switch because
we're going to be putting our
own centering constraint on.
So we'll need an outlet to
that in order to remove it.
And when we send remove constraint,
we'll have to be able to send it to
the view that has the constraint,
and that would be the common ancestor
of the switch and the container view,
which is the container view.
So we set up that outlet.
And then we need outlets to the two
controls that are going into the
constraint that we're going to create.
So we need an outlet to the button
and an outlet to the switch.
Okay, once that code is set up, I mean,
once those outlets are set up, excuse me,
Then we can go to our
code in viewcontroller.m.
Again, I'm doing this in viewDidLoad.
And the first thing we do is we
remove the constraint we don't want.
So it's simple enough.
We send the old constraint in
the message remove constraint
to the view that has it,
which is the switch container.
And then we create
The constraint we actually want,
which is that the center of
the orange switch is equal
to the center of the button.
And again, the multiplier is 1
and the constant is 0.
And we add the constraint.
And sure enough,
now the switch stays with
its center over the button,
which is what we wanted.
Rotate, and we're good.
So there we have an example.
[Transcript missing]
And it was a pretty simple example,
but you might have
already begun to notice
that something's going
on behind the scenes.
There's something global going on.
You know,
some constraint or something might
apply to some view over here,
but because of the situation,
another view somewhere else in the
view hierarchy might get affected,
and so there is something
going on behind the scenes.
When the UI's just sitting there,
it's drawn, everything's fine,
then something happens.
Say, for example,
you rotate the device or
there's a window resize,
and the situation has changed,
and so the solution for the constraints,
the answer, the frames, has changed.
So we need to redraw,
and before we redraw,
we have to apply the new layout.
Other things that might happen
is a view might get added,
such as a badge of some kind,
and when a view gets added,
it's going to be added
with its constraints,
and they have to be
brought into the system,
and you get a new view,
and you get a new solution,
and that has to be applied,
so we're gonna have to redraw.
[Transcript missing]
You can poke the system and say,
you know, hey,
I'm sending in a request for any of
these passes with set needs display,
set needs layout,
set needs update constraints.
The only difference between
the two kits is the argument,
the colon on the app kit side,
and the only reason there's
this difference is for internal
consistency within the kits.
The only really new piece of API is
set needs update constraints on UIView.
UIView already has set needs-display
and set needs-layout from
the existing display passes,
and they just are -- we co-opted
them with the Auto Layout,
so when you're using auto-layout,
the same ones work.
And set needs-update
constraints completes the deal.
You can also have this sort of
thing happen immediately rather
than waiting for the next time
the system is going to do it,
with layout if needed
on UIView and UI window,
and layout subtree if needed on
NSView and layout if needed on NSWindow.
This reminds me of something
I meant to say earlier,
which is with the cross-view
hierarchy constraints,
this question doesn't come up in AppKit,
but in UIKit,
UIWindow is a subclass of UIView.
I don't mean cross-window constraints,
okay?
We don't support that.
Your constraints all have to be
within the same window to apply.
So in case -- that's a subtlety,
but just, you know, remember that.
Anyways, let's go back to these phases
of display one more time.
We're interested in layout.
So let's just say that we know that
the constraints are up to date.
And we know that after we've laid out,
we're going to draw somehow.
So we're not going to think about that.
What's happening during this
phase where we apply the layout?
That's where the system is sending
layout on AppKit and layout
subviews on UIKit to the views.
Now, layout subviews heretofore
has been a no-op on UIView.
And going forward,
if you're using Auto Layout,
layout subviews in UIKit is where
the Auto Layout solution is applied.
During that layout pass,
we take our solution and we
send set frame in NSView and
set bounds in set center.
to UI view to get the solution
onto your view hierarchy.
So unfortunately when
you're working with layout,
sometimes you run it and
you don't see what you want,
and you say something's
gone wrong with the layout.
Well, if you're using Auto Layout,
you need to think again because
the layout task is pretty simple.
We're just applying these
frames from the solution.
Something might have gone
wrong with your constraints.
That's more likely.
There are two things that are
required about your constraints.
First of all,
the constraints that you set must
be sufficient to fully define the
position and the size of your view.
Also, the constraints must not
conflict with each other.
You must actually have something
that could exist in real life
without an alternate dimension.
I think I pulled a fast one
on you because I said the
constraints have to be sufficient.
What's going on here?
I said I have the constraint saying
that the button's center X is
equal to the superview's center X.
And I have a constraint saying that
the button's bottom is equal to the
superview's bottom minus the padding.
But did I put any constraints
on that had anything to do
with the size of the button?
How -- where did the size come from?
I didn't put any constraints on there.
Well, it came from here.
There's a method on NS view and
UI view called intrinsic content size.
And the base implementation
basically says,
oh, nothing, you know.
But for some -- for some views,
there actually is a size that
makes sense that we could return.
Like for a button, for example,
you know about the content,
like the label or the image.
You know something about the size of it.
You know about the image that's going to
be used for the background of the button.
So the system can actually
come up with a preferred size.
So the -- the kits have implemented
intrinsic content size to
return actual sizes in -- for
specific subclasses of the views.
And you can also override this, too.
I'm not going to talk any more about
this because there's a lot more
details and in the session on Thursday,
mastering Auto Layout,
you can learn a lot more.
But now you know I'm
not just tricking you.
Okay.
All right.
So what I'd like to dive right into
now is the things that can go wrong.
However,
Interface Builder does its very best
to help you avoid these problems.
That means it would be hard
for me to demonstrate these
problems in Interface Builder.
So I'm going to demonstrate
these problems in code.
And that elementary API,
while it's easy to remember,
once you start writing out
four of those for every view,
You get kind of a big
pile of hard to read code.
So that's why I'm going to first talk
about the visual format language,
which makes the code easier to read,
because then you'll follow
along better when I show you
the things that can go wrong.
So here's an example.
Here we have a pretty simple
constraint that we're setting up,
a constraint between this
cancel and accept button.
And when you look at the picture,
you can see right away that
you're setting up a fixed spacer,
and that the cancel button's on the left
and the accept button's on the right.
So when you look at the code,
if you look at it fast,
you might even get left and right
mixed up because that left attribute
is right there next to accept button,
and we're not saying the
accept button is on the left,
we're saying that the left side of the
accept button is to the right of the,
and okay, you know, so the,
that means the accept
button is on the right.
It's just a lot easier
to look at this picture.
You don't even hardly
have to think about it.
So wouldn't it be awesome
if you could just say,
here are my pictures,
you please write the constraints for me.
If there was only,
there was a way to draw such
a simple picture in Xcode.
And for those of you who
like to do ASCII art,
there is a way.
[Transcript missing]
The API is constraints
with visual format.
And the parser will just read
that ASCII format string and write
those elementary API constraints.
There's a couple of other arguments.
We'll get into that.
And there's the views dictionary
which tells the parser what
objects those strings represent.
And we even have a nifty little macro
for you so that if those strings are
the same as your local variable names,
you can use NSDictionary of variable
bindings to create that dictionary
which makes it a lot easier.
I like that a lot.
If you break in the debugger and
look at your views dictionary,
it'll just be what you expect,
except without bogus addresses.
Naturally,
you want to express more than just
two views are next to each other,
and taking automatic sizing,
you might want to be able
to put in specific sizes.
So you can.
You can specifically
say what sizes you want.
And you can do even more.
I'm going to give you a few simple
examples to give you an idea.
There's lots more information
in the documentation,
lots more examples.
It's actually pretty straightforward.
You can get the hang of it pretty
quickly and then refer to the
documentation to refresh your memory.
So for example,
you can put in inequalities
next to those numbers.
And so here's a view that
has a minimum width of 60.
So it has a width that can be
greater than or equal to 60.
And we actually have a priority on that.
It's at 700.
So width greater than or equal
to 60 at a priority of 700.
Of course,
we want to do vertical constraints too,
so we turn our head on our side
to look at the ASCII art and put
a V colon in front of the string.
And then we know that we're vertical.
We have a little shorthand so you
don't have to put in zeros if you want
the views right next to each other.
You just abut the brackets.
And you can also say that the
dimension of one view is equal
to the dimension of another view.
In this case, it's the height.
I'm saying that the yellow box height
is equal to the red box height.
: You can combine a bunch
of views all at once,
and you can talk to the super view.
The pipes there on
either side are saying,
"Connect me to the super view."
I put in an H colon here.
That's the default,
so if you don't put in that prefix,
it's going to be horizontal,
but sometimes it's nice to put in the
prefix to just keep your mind straight.
Now I want you to think about
this example for a minute.
We actually have a bunch
of constraints here.
Remember the API is
constraints with visual format.
We've got four spacer constraints
plus a width constraint.
So if you think about that,
that's just right there.
That's five of those elementary
API messages that were
all kind of hard to read.
And you're pretty happy to do that
if you add on to that an option,
an alignment option,
NS layout format align all baseline.
You've added a few more constraints
to keep them lined up vertically.
So you're getting a lot of bang
for the buck with this syntax.
And now that I've introduced
this syntax to you,
now you can follow along with
the things that can go wrong.
What were those things again?
All right.
You have to make sure that you're not
going to have a lot of constraints.
You have to make sure that the
constraints are sufficient to define
the position and size of the views.
And if you don't have that,
if you break that,
you have ambiguous layout.
Also,
you must make sure that the constraints
do not conflict with each other.
And if you break that rule,
you have unsatisfiable constraints.
So that's what I'm going
to demonstrate to you next,
ambiguous layout and
unsatisfiable constraints.
All right.
So here we are.
Back in our view.
And now let's say I want to
add to that container view a
couple of buttons up at the top.
A cancel button and an accept button,
how about.
All right?
So I have some code to add it
in View Did Load to create my
buttons and add them as subviews.
And then I say, okay,
I'm going to use that
visual format language,
because it's cool and it
will save me a lot of typing.
Plus when I come back later,
I'll be able to read what I did.
And the views I'm interested in are the
cancel button and the accept button.
So I'm going to use the
NSDictionary of variable bindings
macro to set up my views dictionary.
And then I get my constraints.
with constraints with visual format.
And I remember that the super view of
the buttons is that switch the container,
and this is why I left the
container where you could see it.
It actually already has the margins
from the view controller view.
So I don't want to double up the margins.
So I have the cancel button flush
with the border of its super view.
And same thing with the
accept button on the right.
Then I decide I want the system-defined
distance between the two of them.
And of course I want them
aligned all on the baseline.
So I'm like, okay, that's good.
I've defined my constraints.
So I build and run.
I get something that
doesn't look that good.
It kind of looks wrong.
The accept buttons have like
floated up to the top of the window.
And it's definitely
not what I had in mind.
I mean, after all,
there's subviews of this
container view and ugh.
At this point,
this is where you need to start thinking,
do I have ambiguous layout?
And this is such a simple example
that if you think about it,
you might actually just be
able to solve this by thinking,
but we're going to
pretend that you can't.
Topkit has some great visualizing
aids for this that you'll hear more
about in mastering Auto Layout.
I'm not going to go into them here.
Unfortunately,
not available at this time on iOS.
However, we do have something you
can do in the debugger.
It's rudimentary,
but it gets the job done.
You can pause in the debugger.
And you can send to the key window.
Message under Auto Layout trace.
All right, so you send this message,
you get a message
You get an abbreviated view hierarchy.
And look at this.
Ambiguous layout here.
My rounded rec button.
Another ambiguous layout.
All right.
So it was as I suspected.
I have ambiguous layout.
And the reason the layout is ambiguous
is because I didn't say exactly where
vertically I wanted those things,
you know?
I just said I want them aligned
with each other vertically,
but that's not quite
enough to get an answer.
So...
I go back to my code and I say,
all right,
I need to vertically align something.
So let's just vertically
specifically align the cancel button.
And I only have to
align the cancel button,
because remember,
the accept button is already aligned
with the cancel button vertically
with the align all baseline.
There we go.
It's better.
So it's enough to align
the cancel button.
I just say I want the top.
Remember, turn your head on the side.
This is vertical.
So that's the top.
And I'm just using the
same views dictionary.
Don't worry if the views dictionary
has a few extra views in it.
You're fine just using the same one.
So once I do that,
these buttons should have
a position vertically.
So I build and run, and sure enough,
I'm good.
There it's set up where
I want vertically.
But I don't actually want to walk away
from this layout with the cancel button
all bigger than the accept button.
And unfortunately, I wasn't able to quite
demonstrate this to you,
but what could have happened here
is we could have the not always
being the same one that's bigger.
That's what happens with ambiguous layout
is you get sort of unpredictable results.
Sometimes it will be always wrong in
the same way and then you're like,
oh my God, and then I ran it and it was
wrong in a different way.
Okay, that's a big cue that
you've got ambiguous layout.
And the reason we have -- in fact, well,
I'll just show you in
the debugger real quick,
too.
Sure enough, layout's still ambiguous.
And the reason we have ambiguous layout
is because the system couldn't quite
satisfy having the boundaries of those
buttons pinned to the edge and having
the fixed space be the Aqua distance and
fitting the button with its intrinsic
content size that we mentioned.
So it had to stretch one of the buttons,
but it couldn't really
pick which one to stretch.
You're like, well,
but I don't want you to
stretch it in this situation.
Obviously, you should just be
splitting the difference.
Well, yeah, but it's not so obvious,
so you actually have to do that yourself.
All right.
So the way we do that, a nice,
easy-- there are many ways,
but the way I'm going to
do it is I'm going to say,
well, actually,
I want the accept button width to
be equal to the cancel button width.
And I'm going to spell
cancel button correctly,
or else I'm going to
demonstrate something else.
All right, no,
I think I spelled it correctly.
And yes, so this is much better
That's a lot more kind of an
acceptable sort of layout behavior.
And if I pause and look
at the Auto Layout trace,
We're good.
We're no longer ambiguous.
So, yeah.
So the problems are a little subtle
when you have ambiguous layouts,
which is why I spent a
little more time on this.
Because when you have
unsatisfiable constraints,
the system actually
kind of squawks at you.
So I'll just stick in an
unsatisfiable constraint here
real quick to show you that.
So one good way that you end up
with unsatisfiable constraints is
you kind of forgot what you did and
you come back later and you say,
oh, I want this other constraint, okay?
And so let's say I forgot what
I did and I want the cancel
button to be 130 points wide,
so I just put in this
hard-coded width on it,
and at this point I build and run.
and you may have noticed a
complaint right away in the logs.
One of the constraints that
we had established before,
which was required,
it was required but it's
broken and that's that distance
between the two buttons.
So down here, if I had my breakpoints on,
I would have hit a breakpoint too.
So,
You get a big debugger spew,
and don't be afraid of it.
Go to mastering Auto Layout,
and you'll learn about
reading through that spew.
But the important thing here is this.
I have created unsatisfiable constraints.
So that's what's going to
happen to you if you do that.
And I'll just remove that
because it's ungainly.
And then we're back to
the world that we like.
All right.
Okay.
And I want that button.
All right.
So now that I've pointed out
the things that can go wrong,
you're pretty much ready to go,
except for one thing.
There's some compatibility issue that
I need to make sure you all know about.
Everybody.
What is it you need to
know about compatibility?
You're ready to convert to Auto Layout.
What do you care?
Well, first of all, great.
I'm glad you're ready to
convert to Auto Layout.
Please attend both sessions on Thursday,
Mastering Auto Layout and
Auto Layout by Example.
Lots of great help for
doing the conversion.
However, you will have to know about this
compatibility issue because it
will affect something you do
when you create your constraints.
Well, maybe you're not ready to convert.
You're not going to convert yet.
You're just planning on it.
Well, you'll be glad to know that none
of this system turns on until you,
in your app,
add constraints and kick it off.
But you still might want to
continue and get to know this thing.
And what if you just want to use
Auto Layout in part of your application,
or you have a new section that you
can want to use Auto Layout there,
and you don't want to have
to worry about it elsewhere?
Well,
this is what the compatibility is for.
The compatibility is for being
able to use Auto Layout in
part of your application,
and that's what you need to know about.
So, let's say you have some general
UI layout where you have a large
view that has a flexible width and
flexible height auto-resizing mask,
and then you have on the left a tall,
narrow view that has a flexible height,
and you have a little view in the
upper left that isn't flexible at all.
And into this happy world,
you introduce some views that you're
going to layout with constraints.
Well, yep, the Auto Layout system
now gets turned on.
So what happens to all those views
that you didn't apply constraints to?
Well, I said that every view has to
have constraints sufficient to,
you know, define its position and size,
don't we have ambiguous layout?
And the answer is no.
We have a property called translates
auto-resizing mask into constraints.
And this property is on NSVU and UI view.
This property is on by default.
So you add constraints,
Auto Layout gets turned on,
and all your views which don't have
constraints now get system defined
constraints to keep them behaving as if
they had their old auto-resizing mask.
Remember,
everything you can do with springs and
struts you can do with constraints,
so this is how we can do this.
There's one more subtlety.
You might have noticed that two of
these views have auto-resizing masks,
and
But one of them doesn't.
What happened to that view, right?
Well, the truth is, even if your view has
auto resizing mask none,
none doesn't really mean none.
There is actually an
implicit auto resizing mask,
which is fixed left margin, fixed width,
[Transcript missing]
This is where it comes in.
Those views that you're
setting up with constraints,
they have to turn this off.
Because, you know,
if you're trying to position
it with constraints,
you don't want system auto resizing
mass constraints getting in there
and fighting with your constraints.
So you have to turn this off unless,
of course, you set up your constraints
interface builder,
because interface builder takes care of
making sure this property is correct.
And, you know,
if you were quick and paying attention,
because I did, you know,
try to slide it past you,
in my code examples, all those views that
I set up in constraints,
I did send this message to to make
sure that the demos would work.
All right, so taken together,
this should be enough to get you going
to start playing around with Auto Layout.
I showed you how to set up
constraint based layout,
both in IB and in code.
I told you -- gave you an idea of what's
going on behind the scenes in layout.
I showed you the visual format language
so you can set up your constraints
in a more readable fashion in code.
We talked about two important
things that can go wrong.
And we talked about compatibility.
So in summary,
remember you have the elementary API.
This is great for when you're
learning what's happening.
And, you know, also when you need it,
we have the visual format language.
and we have interface builder
which gives you the most readable
situation that you can possibly
have and it's incredibly useful.
So don't forget that interface
builder gives you some power.
Our related sessions.
Be sure to attend the
other Auto Layout sessions.
Best Practices for Mastering
Auto Layout and Auto Layout by Example.
Those are great.
They'll really fill in a lot
of details that I left out.
Also, for those of you on iOS,
the evolution of view controllers on iOS,
he has some examples of some
specific view controller related
Auto Layout that I didn't mention here.
For more information,
please contact Jake Behrens,
our frameworks evangelist.
The docs are terrific.
Don't forget to refer to them
when you forget what I said.
Last year's keynote on
Cocoa Auto Layout is largely
still applicable on iOS as well.
If you're interested in how we
actually arrive at the solution
given these constraints,
you might be interested in the
arithmetic constraint solving
algorithm that's published at the
University of Washington CS website.
If you like linear algebra,
I highly recommend this paper.
And following along with paper and
pencil and working out the examples,
it's pretty interesting.
And of course,
there's the Apple developer forums.